# 2.2 Protocols

Initium Labs is developing various protocols based on the Initium blockchain that will enable the users to employ the extensive capabilities of the Initium blockchain for building high-performance web scalable applications. Detailed information about Initium protocols is available at [https://initium.foundation/protocols](https://initium.foundation/protocols).&#x20;

The main protocols of Initium are:

* Vertex: Vertex is the core of the Initium Native Programs that manage the Initium blockchain. It comprises programs (called Crafts in Initium terminology) that enable functions like token minting, staking, governance, etc., on the Initium blockchain. Vertex is required to run validator nodes. Unlike third-party crafts (programs), the Vertex crafts are part of the validator implementation and can be upgraded as part of cluster upgrades.
* **iCraft**: In Initium terms, iCraft is a term used to refer to smart contracts. The iCrafts can be compiled in various languages, including Rust, C, Go, Solidity, TypeScript, and JavaScript, enabling Initium developers to implement almost any type of smart contract on the Initium blockchain using Pyxis.&#x20;
* **Pyxis**: Pyxis is the BFT Loader of Initium, which deploys, upgrades, and executes iCrafts on the chain. Pyxis craft owns and loads BPF iCrafts, allowing them to interface with the runtime. Initium developers would use Evander as an alternative for deployment and running Ethereum-like smart contracts using the EVM on Initium.
* **RedWrap**: RedWrap is Initium's cross-chain bridge that enables the exchange of information, cryptocurrency, and NFTs from one Initium network to other blockchain networks (e.g., Ethereum, BSC, Polygone, etc.) and vice versa. It enables the flow of data and tokens across what would otherwise be siloed sets of data on different blockchains.&#x20;
*   **Lynx**: Lynx is essentially a protocol for launching Lynx networks––the consortium networks and private blockchains–– based on the Initium technology. Lynx network blockchains are called LynxChains, which benefit from Lynx consensus (an implementation of Covenant consensus with POA properties) Lynx network is where the users can launch their blockchains using the Lynx protocol.





