# 3.7 Bootstrapping

The first step in participating in Initium is bootstrapping. The process occurs in three stages: (1) connection to seed nodes, (2) networking and state discovery, and (3) becoming a validator.

### 3.6.1 Seed Nodes&#x20;

Any networked system of peers that operates without a permissioned (i.e. hard-coded) set of identities requires some mechanism for peer discovery. In peer-to-peer file sharing networks, a set of trackers are used. In crypto networks, a typical mechanism is the use of DNS seed nodes which comprise a set of well-defined seed-IP addresses from which other members of the network can be discovered. The role of DNS seed nodes is to provide useful information about the set of active participants in the system. The same mechanism is employed in Bitcoin Core \[15], wherein `src/chainparams.cpp` file of the source code holds a list of hard-coded seed nodes.&#x20;

The difference between BTC and Initium is that BTC requires just one correct DNS seed node, while Avalanche requires a simple majority of the anchors to be correct. As an example, a new user may choose to bootstrap the network view through a set of well-established and reputable exchanges, any one of which individually is not trusted. We note, however, that the set of bootstrap nodes does not need to be hard-coded or static, and can be provided by the user, though for ease of use, clients may provide a default setting that includes economically important actors, such as exchanges, with which clients wish to share a world view. There is no barrier to becoming a seed node, therefore a set of seed nodes can not dictate whether a node may or may not enter the network, since nodes can discover the latest network of Initium peers by attaching to any set of seed nodes.

### 3.6.2 Networking and State Discovery

Once connected to the seed nodes, a node queries for the latest set of state transitions. We call this set of state transitions the accepted frontier. For the Initium blockchain, the accepted frontier is the last accepted block. It means that a new validator doesn't need to download all previous blocks to be a valid node on the Initium blockchain. &#x20;

### 3.6.3 Becoming a Validator

A node wishing to enter the network can freely do so by first putting up a stake that is immobilized during the duration of participation in the network. The user determines the amount duration of the stake. Once accepted, a stake cannot be reverted. The main goal is to ensure that nodes substantially share the same mostly stable view of the network. At the time of writing this whitepaper, the proposed minimum staking amount for a validator is 2,000 $INIX.&#x20;

Initium does not apply the slashing, and therefore all stake is returned when the staking period expires. This prevents unwanted scenarios such as a client software or hardware failure leading to a loss of coins. This dovetails with our design philosophy of building predictable technology: the staked tokens are not at risk, even in the presence of software or hardware flaws.

In Initium, a node that wants to join the network should issue a special stake transaction to the `Vertex` (crafts that make Initium Native Programs). Staking transactions name an amount to stake, the staking key of the participant that is staking, the duration, and the time that validation will start. Once the transaction is accepted, the funds will be locked until the end of the staking period. The minimal allowed amount is decided and enforced by the system. The stake amount placed by a participant has implications for both the amount of influence the participant has in the consensus process, as well as the rewards. The specified staking duration must be between $$δ_{min}$$ and $$δ_{max}$$, the minimum and maximum timeframes for which any stake can be locked. As with the staking amount, the staking period also has implications for the reward in the system. Loss or theft of the staking key cannot lead to asset loss, as the staking key is used only in the consensus process, not for asset transfer.
