# 3.8 Sybil Control & Membership

Consensus protocols provide their security guarantees under the assumption that up to a threshold number of members in the system could be adversarial. A Sybil attack, wherein a node cheaply floods the network with malicious identities, can trivially invalidate these guarantees. Fundamentally, such an attack can only be deterred by trading off presence with proof of a hard-to-forge resource \[16]. Past systems have explored the use of Sybil deterrence mechanisms that span proof-of-work (PoW), proof-of-stake (PoS), proof-of-elapsed-time (POET), proof-of-space-and-time (PoST), and proof-of-authority (PoA).

At their core, all of these mechanisms serve an identical function: they require that each participant have some “skin in the game” in the form of some economic commitment, which in turn provides an economic barrier against misbehavior by that participant. All of them involve a form of stake, whether it is in the form of mining rigs and hash power (PoW), disk space (PoST), trusted hardware (POET), or an approved identity (PoA). This stake forms the basis of an economic cost that participants must bear to acquire a voice. For instance, in Bitcoin, the ability to contribute valid blocks is directly proportional to the hash-power of the proposing participant. Unfortunately, there has also been substantial confusion between consensus protocols versus Sybil control mechanisms. We note that the choice of consensus protocols is, for the most part, orthogonal to the choice of the Sybil control mechanism. This is not to say that Sybil control mechanisms are drop-in-replacements for each other since a particular choice might have implications for the underlying guarantees of the consensus protocol.

Initium chooses PoS for the core Sybil control mechanism. Some forms of stake are inherently centralized: mining rig manufacturing (PoW), for instance, is inherently centralized in the hands of a few people with the appropriate know-how and access to the dozens of patents required for competitive VLSI manufacturing. Furthermore, PoW mining leaks value due to the large yearly miner subsidies. Similarly, disk space is most abundantly owned by large data center operators. Further, all Sybil control mechanisms that accrue ongoing costs, e.g. electricity costs for hashing, leak value out of the ecosystem, not to mention destroy the environment. This, in turn, reduces the feasibility envelope for the token, wherein an adverse price move over a small time frame can render the system inoperable. Proof-of-work inherently selects for miners who have the connections to procure cheap electricity, which has little to do with the miners’ ability to serialize transactions or their contributions to the overall ecosystem. Among these options, we choose proof-of-stake, because it is green, accessible, and open to all. We note, however, that while the Initium uses PoS, the Lynx network enables LynxChains to be launched with PoW, POS, and POA.

Staking is a natural mechanism for participation in an open network because it enables a direct economic argument: the probability of success of an attack is directly proportional to a well-defined monetary cost function. In other words, the nodes that stake are economically motivated not to engage in behavior that might hurt the value of their stake. Additionally, this stake does not incur any additional upkeep costs (other than the opportunity cost of investing in another asset) and has the property that, unlike mining equipment, is fully consumed if used in a catastrophic attack.
