# 6.1 Optimizations

### 6.1.1 Pruning&#x20;

Many blockchain platforms, especially those implementing Nakamoto consensus such as Bitcoin, suffer from perpetual state growth. This issue is because– by protocol– they have to store the entire history of transactions. However, for a blockchain to grow sustainably, it must be able to prune old history. This issue is significant for blockchains that support high performance, such as Initium. Pruning is simple in the Covenant consensus. Unlike in Bitcoin (and similar protocols), where pruning is not possible per the algorithmic requirements, in Initium, nodes do not need to maintain parts of the blockchain that are deep and highly committed. These nodes do not need to prove any history to new bootstrapping nodes and therefore have to store active state, i.e., the current balances and uncommitted transactions.

### 6.1.2 Sharding&#x20;

Sharding involves splitting and distributing one logical data set across multiple databases that share nothing and can be deployed across multiple servers. For sharding, the rows or columns of a larger database table are split into multiple smaller tables.

Initium will benefit from the horizontal sharding. Horizontal scaling, also known as _scaling out,_ helps create a more flexible database design, which is especially useful for parallel processing. It provides near-limitless scalability for intense workloads and big data requirements. With horizontal sharding, users can optimally use all the compute resources across a cluster for every query. This sharding method also speeds up query resolution since each machine has to scan fewer rows when responding to a query.

### 6.1.3 Client Types

Initium can support three different types of clients: archival, full, and light. The archival nodes store the entire history of the Hardron and Castor networks, all the way to genesis, meaning that these nodes serve as bootstrapping nodes for new incoming nodes. Additionally, these nodes may store the entire history of other subnets for which they choose to be validators. Archival nodes are typically machines with high storage capabilities paid for by other nodes when downloading old states. On the other hand, full nodes participate in validation, but instead of storing all history, they store the active state. Finally, for those who need to interact securely with the network using the most minimal amount of resources, Initium supports light clients, proving that some transaction has been committed without needing to download or synchronize history. Light clients engage in the repeated sampling phase of the protocol to ensure safe commitment and network-wide consensus. Therefore, lightweight clients in Initium provide the same security guarantees as full nodes.
