# 6.2 Concerns

### 6.2.1 Post Quantum Cryptography&#x20;

Post-quantum cryptography has recently gained widespread attention due to the advances in the development of quantum computers and algorithms. The concern with quantum computers is that they can break some currently deployed cryptographic protocols, specifically digital signatures. The Initium network model enables any number of VMs, supporting a quantum-resistant virtual machine with a suitable digital signature mechanism. We anticipate deploying several digital signature schemes, including quantum-resistant RLWE-based signatures. The consensus mechanism does not assume any heavy crypto for its core operation. Given this design, extending the system with a new virtual machine that provides quantum secure cryptographic primitives is straightforward.

### 6.2.2 Realistic Adversaries

Initium consensus, the Covenant, provides strong guarantees in the presence of a powerful and hostile adversary, known as a round-adaptive adversary in the full point-to-point model. In other terms, the adversary has full access to the state of every single correct node at all times, knows the random choices of all correct nodes, as well as can update its state at any time, before and after the correct node has the chance to update its state. Effectively, this adversary is all-powerful, except for the ability to directly update the state of a correct node or modify the communication between correct nodes. Nonetheless, in reality, such an adversary is purely theoretical since practical implementations of the most potent possible adversary are restricted to statistical approximations of the network state. Therefore, in practice, we expect worst-case scenario attacks to be challenging to deploy.

### 6.2.3 Inclusion and Equality

A common problem in permissionless currencies is the "rich getting richer" phenomenon since a PoS system that is improperly implemented may allow wealth generation to be disproportionately attributed to the already large holders of stake in the system. A simple example is that of leader-based consensus protocols, wherein a subcommittee or a designated leader collects all the rewards during its operation and where the probability of being chosen to collect rewards is proportional to the stake, accruing strong reward compounding effects. Further, in systems such as Bitcoin, there is a "big get bigger" phenomenon where the big miners enjoy a premium over smaller ones in terms of fewer orphans and less lost work. In contrast, Initium employs an egalitarian distribution of minting: every single participant in the staking protocol is rewarded equitably and proportionally based on stake. By enabling vast numbers of people to participate first-hand in staking, Initium can accommodate millions of people to participate equally. The minimum amount required to participate in the protocol will be up for governance, but it will be initialized to a low value to encourage broad participation. This also implies that delegation is not required to participate with a small allocation.
