# 4.3 Prime Node

The Prime node is the leader of the Initium cluster. This node is a validator elected by the supermajority of the available validators in the Initium blockchain at a given time.&#x20;

To become a Prime node, a validator with the Candidate status sends a voting request to all validators in the network. It's possible that other Candidate nodes also request voting, however, the Candidate that receives the higher votes will be elected as the Prime node. The remaining Candidates can be elected as the Supervisor nodes upon determination of the Prime node.&#x20;

Initium uses the same logic as RAFT for choosing the Prime node. Initium uses a heartbeat mechanism to trigger the leader election. When nodes start up, they begin as followers. A node remains in the follower state as long as it receives valid 5 RPCs from a leader or candidate. Leaders send periodic heartbeats (AppendEntriesRPCs that carry no log entries) to all followers in order to maintain their authority. If a follower receives no communication over a period of time called the election timeout, then it assumes there is no viable leader and begins an election to choose a new leader.&#x20;

The Prime node sets the Proof of Synchronization sequence by which all other nodes in the network will adjust their timestamp based on the central time that the Prime node sets in the network. This timestamp is based on the previous timestamp set by the previous Prime node with elapsed time between the finalization of the last block in the network and the election of the new Prime node.&#x20;

The Prime node receives the transactions from the clients and distributes them among the Legions for verification. If any other node receives a transaction from a client, it passes it to the Prime node. Therefore, the Prime node is an aggregator of all transactions sent by the clients to the Initium. The Prime node organizes in FIFO order as the first received transaction by the Prime node will be processed first.&#x20;

Upon verification of the transactions by the supermajority of the Legions and updating the state by the Supervisors, the Prime node finalizes the block and registers it in the Initium Ledger.&#x20;

