# 1.1 Goals and Principles

Initium is a high-performance, web scalable, customizable, and secure blockchain. It targets three broad use cases:

* Building and launching high-performance web scalable decentralized applications (dApps).&#x20;
* &#x20;Building and launching application-specific blockchains, spanning permisssioned and permissionless deployments.&#x20;
* Building arbitrarily complex digital assets with custom rules, properties, and riders (smart assets).&#x20;

The overarching aim of Initium is to provide a unifying platform for the creation, transfer, and trade of digital assets, data interchange, and cross-blockchain exchanges.



By construction, Initium possesses the following properties:

* **Scalable**: Initium is designed to be massively scalable, robust, and efficient. The core consensus engine can potentially support a global network of hundreds of millions of internet-connected, low and high-powered devices that operate seamlessly, with low latencies and very high transactions per second.
* **Secure**: Initium is designed to be robust and achieve high security. Classical consensus protocols are designed to withstand up to $$f$$ attackers and fail when faced with an attacker of size $$f + 1$$ or larger. Nakamoto consensus provides no security when 51% of the miners are Byzantine. In contrast, Initium delivers a strong guarantee of safety when the attacker is below a certain threshold, which the system designer can parametrize. It provides graceful degradation when the attacker exceeds this threshold. It can uphold safety (but not liveness) guarantees even when the attacker exceeds 51%.&#x20;
* **Decentralized**: Initium is designed to provide unprecedented decentralization that implies a commitment to multiple client implementations and no centralized control. The ecosystem is designed to avoid divisions between classes of users with different interests. Crucially, there is no distinction between verifiers, developers, and users.
* **Governable**: Initium is a highly inclusive platform, enabling anyone to connect to its network and participate in the validation and first-hand governance. Any $INIX token holder can vote in selecting key financial parameters and choosing how the system evolves \[[1](../appendixes/references.md)].
* **Interoperable and Flexible**: Initium is designed to be a universal and flexible infrastructure for a multitude of blockchains/assets, where the base $INIX is used for security and as a unit of account for the exchange. In a value-neutral fashion, the system intends to support many blockchains to be built on top. The platform is designed from the ground up to make it easy to port existing blockchains onto it, import balances, support multiple scripting languages and virtual machines, and meaningfully support multiple deployment scenarios.
